("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has cleared
♪ As day is dawning
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
♪ As I change with them
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
♪ And courage to know
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change
♪ I'll change with them
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
(uptempo music)
- Borka wants to talk
to me, is that so?
- [Narrator] Borka and
his robbers moved into
the north side of Mattis' fort
without asking permission.
They settled into the
other side of Hell's Gap.
Mattis and his
robbers went up to try
and chase them off, but
they wouldn't budge.
Mattis was terribly frustrated.
And in the forest, Ronja
had problems of her own.
(giggles)
- Mmmm.
Hmpf.
(footsteps)
- Are you really in
that much of a hurry?
- Who said that I'm in a hurry?
And it's nothing to
do with you, anyway.
Huh.
- Hmm.
(footsteps)
(breathing heavily)
(sighs)
- That good-for-nothing rascal.
What is he doing in my forest?
I'll go and check.
(playful music)
(rustling)
Huh?
(playful music)
(giggles)
(kits grumbling)
- What do you want,
robber's daughter?
- Huh?
(giggles)
Hmpf.
Well, it appears you are
a Borka Robber after all.
And you really thought
you could steal
my fox cubs from my forest?
- We're not the only ones who
take things without asking.
Mattis' robbers do it, too.
- Hm?
Anyhow, leave my fox cubs
alone, understand me?
Why don't you get
out of my woods?
Hm.
- Your fox cubs?
Your woods?
Fox cubs belong to
no one, understand?
They belong to themselves.
Hm.
The forest doesn't
belong to people.
You don't own these woods.
The animals do.
And that's not all.
This is the wolves'
and bears' and elks'
and wild horses' woods, too.
And the owls' and the hawks'
and the cuckoos'
wood and the snails'
and the spiders'
and the ants' wood.
- I know every animal,
every creature,
so don't go trying
to teach me anything.
Hmpf.
- So, you know, the Harpies?
The Great Wolves?
The Merk Trolls?
They're all out there.
It's their wood, too.
Not to mention the
unearthly ones.
- You think you're
so smart, don't you?
Why don't you tell me
something I don't know.
Otherwise, shut up.
- Mmm, no, because
it's not your forest.
The forest belongs to everyone,
including me!
- Hmpf.
- And if you think it's yours,
robber's daughter,
if you really think
you can keep it all to yourself,
then you are stupid.
- Well, you see,
I'm happy to share
with all the animals.
Foxes, owls, all of them.
All of the animals here but you!
Hmm.
(footsteps)
(wind whooshing)
Huh?
Hmm.
- Ronja?
Wait for me.
- Ugh.
- [Birk] Ronja?
- What do you want?
- This mist.
Don't you think it's
a little bit scary?
- Do you?
You're not frightened
that you can't
find your way back to the home
that you and all your
thieving family broke into?
Maybe you should share
the foxes' lair with them?
After all, you're
so fond of sharing.
(giggles)
- You've got a head
hotter than rock,
robber's daughter,
like your father.
But you can find your way home
better than I will.
And this mist is movin'
in really quickly.
Do you mind if I hold on
to the edge of your tunic
'til we're safely
out of the woods?
(footsteps)
(wind whooshing)
Oop.
- Here.
Hold on to this but keep
a rope's length away.
I'm warning you, don't let go.
(chuckles)
- As you wish, angry
robber's daughter.
- Hmpf.
(footsteps)
(wind whooshing)
(ominous music)
Good.
Huh?
- Hmm, do you know where we are?
- The signpost rock.
We're on the right path.
(wind whooshing)
(footsteps)
(gasps)
But how?
Have we just been
going 'round in circles
all this time?
(giggling)
Ah.
(ominous music)
I'll be alright.
I'll be home soon,
then I'll hear Lovis
sing the wolf song.
Birk?
(wind whooshing)
(giggling)
Huh?
Ah.
(giggling)
(children singing)
They're calling.
I'm coming.
Wait.
- Ronja!
Where'd you think you're going?
You mustn't follow the
unearthly ones, Ronja.
If you do, you'll
be lost forever.
Do you hear me, forever!
(children singing)
- I'm coming.
Wait!
- Ronja!
- Let me go.
(grunting)
Let me go!
(thudding)
- Stop doing that!
You can't go!
(groaning)
- No, please, wait!
(wind whooshing)
(children singing)
Yes, that's right.
Coming!
- You mustn't.
- Let me go!
I said let me go!
- I won't!
- Let me go!
(groaning)
Let me go, let me go.
- Ah!
- I must go!
(breathing heavily)
(children singing)
- Wait for me!
Let me go, let me go.
(children singing)
Hey!
I told you to keep a
rope's length away.
What happened?
Were you bitten by a fox?
(giggles)
- Um, no.
I'm fine, and now
I think I can find
my own way back to Borka's Keep.
- Huh?
- [Narrator] Ronja stared
at Birk a long time.
No matter how she
tried, she suddenly
found it difficult to
think badly of him,
and she did not know why.
- It's called Mattis' fort
and I hope you fall
into Hell's Gap.
(footsteps)
(mellow music)
- Lovis is still out, looking
after the sheep and goats.
The nights always
start to get chilly
in the autumn.
- Mattis?
- Hm?
- Did you ever take
something from someone
without asking first?
- Uh, uh.
(clears throat)
When that ghostly fog
started to roll in,
I was afraid you'd get lost,
that I'd never see you
again, my little Ronja.
- It was fine.
I found my way back.
But, have you taken things
without asking for permission?
- Mmm.
Well...
- We've taken lots of things.
For instance, lots-
- Quiet, old man.
I'll deal with this myself,
thank you very much.
- Oh! (laughs)
- My Ronja.
You're still an innocent child,
which is why I never
wanted to talk to you
about it before.
- Hm.
- No, you haven't
said a word before.
And of course, we weren't
allowed to say anything, either,
were we?
- Ugh, you're rambling, old man.
Time you went to bed.
- Oh, no it's not.
I swear by the devil,
I intend to stay here
and listen to this.
(groans)
- Please hear me out, my Ronja.
- Mmm.
(playful music)
So, when you all came home
with all those things,
you had taken them from people
passing through the forest?
- Mmm.
- But, don't they get angry
when you take their
things away from them?
- Oh, do they ever (laughs).
All the wailing.
Hee hee hee.
Ronja, you should
hear them crying.
- I said it's time for bed.
- We've even heard
some of the men weep.
- Quiet!
You really are pushing
your luck, now.
Gaaa...
You mustn't listen
to him, alright?
It's nothing to
be worried about.
It's just the way it is.
It's the way it's always been.
- Oh, that's right.
No reason to fuss.
But those people never do
get used to it, do they?
They just go on
howling and crying,
in a most delightful way.
- Ah!
- Uh oh!
- My great-grandfather,
my grandfather, my father
were all robber chiefs.
And so am I.
In all the woods and
mountains, we are the mightiest
clan of robbers,
and Ronja, that's what
you will also be one day.
Isn't that nice?
- Never!
- Huh?
Not on my life.
If it means people
are made to be angry
and cry, I'll never steal.
(fire crackles)
- Ah!
You must understand.
I only ever steal
from the very rich.
Never do I hurt them, much
less take their lives.
And,
yes.
Sometimes, I even share
some of the loot with the poor.
- Mmm, he's telling the truth.
- Huh?
- Remember the time you
gave that poor widow
with eight kids a
whole sack of flour?
- Oh, yeah.
- And when was that?
- Uh...
- Well, he's certainly
generous giving to the poor
every ten years.
Isn't that right?
You're so kind.
(laughs)
- Ah!
Alright that's it!
If you don't wanna
sleep in the woods
I'd go to bed, because I've
had it up to here with you!
Ah!
- What's the commotion?
- Ah, suddenly I
feel quite sleepy.
(fire crackles)
- Ronja, you go to bed, as well.
♪ Wild wolf please
♪ Leave us be
♪ I know you're proud
- It doesn't matter to
me whether he's a robber
or if he's a chieftain.
Whatever he does,
he's my father.
My precious Mattis.
♪ I know your pain
- I...
- love...
- ♪ Grows hungry again
Mattis...
♪ But you won't
take mine from me ♪
(mellow music)
- [Narrator] That night,
Ronja had a dream.
(giggling)
- I'm coming.
Wait.
- [Birk] Ronja, don't go.
Don't go!
- [Narrator] When she woke
up the next morning,
Ronja had forgotten everything.
Next time, on Ronja
the Robber's Daughter,
(uptempo music)
"Autumn Deepens".
Don't miss it.
(mellow music)